[Music]
Good evening. Uh my name is Brian
Hagerty. I'm the chairman of the board
of the board of trustees here at the Al
Paso Community College Board of
Trustees.
Uh if anyone would like to follow along
tonight on our meeting on the internet
at home, you can go to www.youtube
youtube.com/user/goepcc.
Uh, can you call the role?
Yes, sir.
Mr. Uxer
here.
Mrs. Robas
Miss Naha
here.
Mr. Mendes
Mrs. Moy
here.
Dr. Graham
Mr. Hagerty
here.
Can we all stand for the pledge of
allegiance, please?
To the flag of the United States of
America and to the rep for it stands one
nation under God indivisibley
and justice for all
like to welcome everyone here tonight.
Item 1.4 approval of minutes. There is
none. Item 1.6 open forum. There is a
couple of open forums. Michelle Diaz.
Um, EPCC softball regarding coach
Gutierrez.
Come on up.
No.
Do Do I list all the individuals?
Just one.
Just one at a time.
Just one at a time. Michelle Das.
Okay. Bella Abodaka.
Hello, my name's Bea Apoaka. Um, I would
just like to say that um, coach was a
really positive person. Like um, she was
always there for us. Um, no matter how
our games went, coach always stayed
positive for us. Um,
I think coach um was a very good coach.
I love the way she had patience with us.
I love the way she would always be
positive with us. Um, no matter how many
loes we we had, coach would always be
positive with us. Um,
everyone, not everyone had confidence in
the softball team for us to make it to
regionals or for us to win, but coach
knew what we had and she always um
wanted what's best for us was to win.
So, yes, I just think that coach really
was positive person towards us and
towards everyone
and yes.
Okay. Thank you. Elsa Apodaka from the
EPCC softball. Also regarding coach
Gutierrez.
Hi, my name is Elsa Podaka
and I'm here for Coach Gutierrez.
I've coached my whole life. I even
coached here with the tanes. I was a
third coach and I loved it. Katie was
one of my players. She was a hell of a
player, let me tell you.
My daughter got a scholarship to play
here, which I was so proud because I
played here and let me tell you what I
saw out of Coach Gutierrez was great.
She was, like my daughter said, positive
with the girls.
She was great coaching out there and
like I told you with my experience of
being a high school coach, also head
coach for many years, I see coach being
a heck of a coach out there and I would
like for you guys to keep giving her the
opportunity to keep coaching.
Thanks.
Thank you,
Anna Loose.
Good afternoon. My name is Anna Luc
Silva and I stand before you not just as
a student athlete, but as someone whose
life has been genuinely impacted by
Coach Gutierrez.
When I first joined this program, I was
unsure of myself. Didn't know if I had
what it took.
But not just as a sport, but in life.
But coach Gutierrez didn't just train us
to compete, but she trained us to
believe in ourselves. She held us at an
account accountable, showed us how to
lead with integrity, and taught us
effort and respect. It mattered just as
not what just mattered on the
scoreboard. After all, this wasn't just
about the wins or the stats. It wasn't
about developing us as people, and she
made sure of that every single day. I
know decisions are complex and sometimes
difficult, but I'm asking you to
consider the whole picture and not just
the outcome of this season. for a moment
in time and the cons consideration with
coach. We had heartful times and very
strong times and sad times and honestly
I could say that we genuinely bonded as
a team for a moment for coach Gave to
this team and this school. She showed us
for us not just on the field but off the
field. She created a culture of trust,
growth and resilience. It hurts to see
someone who gave us so much let go so
quickly. Especially since we have one
more year with her. Um, and I believe
that everything in me that deserves a
chance to continue doing what she does
best, guiding, coaching, and changing
lives like she changed mine. Thank you
for hearing me. And I speak not just for
myself, but for many who might not have
the words, but who feel some remorse and
some deep felt. Thank you. Thank you,
Alexis Corona.
Good evening. I just wanted to come on
here and say like coach Gi really
brought out like something in me. She
made me feel so comfortable on the
field. you know, I'm sort of kind of
timid at times and like normally for
college teams, you're not really like
comfortable with a coach, but she really
made me feel real safe and comfortable
and she like she's very cheerful
sometimes. She's, you know, she can be
like, how do I say this? Like a coach.
Does that make sense? Like she could
just like set the tone right away. And
I'm just really hoping we get the
outcome we all want. Thank you.
Thank you, Donna Castillo.
When I foreign.
Okay.
forces.
[Music]
Thank you, Kimberly Chavez.
Um, hello. Um, I know decisions like
these are complicated, but I want to
speak honestly about Coach Gutierrez,
um, and how she means to us. Um, she's
not just a coach, she's a mentor, a role
model, and a backbone to this team. Um,
Coach G has pushed us to grow, not just
as athletes, but as people. Um, she's
shown up every day with energy,
discipline, and belief in us, even when
we doubted ourselves.
Um, our team culture, our unity, and our
progress both on and off the field are a
direct reflection of her leadership lead
of her leadership. Um, I've personally
learned consistency, preparation, work,
ethnic, and many other things. And I
know I'm not the only one. The impact
she made here doesn't just live in wins
and losses. It lives in in who we are
becoming. This decision isn't just about
one person. It affects all of us. And
we're not ready to lose her. Um, thank
you. I appreciate your time.
Thank you,
Aelica Valdez.
Hello. I'm just here to say I'm one of
the parents to the athletes. Um, also a
coach for city and travel ball. Um, a
lot of the girls that have gone through,
uh, Coach Gutierrez have come from our
team. Um, and there's nothing but
positive things coming out of everybody.
Um, I've talked to them, I've asked
them, and positivity is all everybody
has to say about her. She's great.
Um, she's
she's just a great coach. She's very
positive. teaches these girls a lot from
the person they're going to become to
the players they are. Thank you.
Thank you,
So,
Thank you, Maria.
So English.
Thank you, Michelle Diaz.
Okay.
Section 1.7, Presentations by
individuals, groups, and organizations.
Item 1.7.1, Dr. William Sarata, College
President, will recognize individuals
who have retired from El Paso Community
College.
Chair Hagerty and members of the board.
Um, these are always bittersweet moments
um when we have an individual who has
earned their retirement. Uh, Mr. Russ
Meyers started at El Paso Community
College on April 23rd, 1990 as a
programmer analyst. He later became a
senior programmer analyst working on a
variety of projects including the EPCC
telephone registration system. He joined
the adjunct faculty ranks in 1993 within
the ITSC discipline. Mr. Myers enjoyed
teaching and became a full-time faculty
member starting in the fall of 1996.
He taught a wide variety of technologies
including operating systems,
spreadsheets, databases, programming,
and networking. He served as an ITSC
discipline coordinator from 1997 to
2021. A few major initiatives included
the start of the Cisco Academy, the
60-hour rule degree changes, and course
development for multiple courses. During
his time as a faculty member, he was the
host of EPCC TV computer train show for
eight years and 80 episodes for a
variety of EPCC departments. He created
databases and trained staff to help them
with their day-to-day responsibilities
for the institutional effectiveness
department. He created databases to
track EPCC standing committees and
memberships, EPCC college policies and
procedures and the program review. He
continued to share his expertise in data
management by creating a database to
track area improvement plans across the
college for the institutional planning
department for the dual credit
department. Mr. Myers created a database
to track area high school dual credit
locations, contact personnel,
and required textbooks, materials for
dual credit course offerings. His most
recent project has been for the EPCC
Foundation. He created a database to
track donors and donations received by
the college. An interesting side note is
that Mr. Myers met his wife Norgas at
EPCC, a work study in the accounting
services department in the early 90s.
After a 30-year educational career
ending as a principal, uh, Mrs. Myers
now works as an adjunct faculty member
in the educational psychology discip
discipline. His daughter Lindsay started
her education at EPCC, graduated with a
mechanical engineering degree from NMSU,
and started working as a project manager
for the physical plant department here
at EPCC in 2024. Russy has contributed
much to the success of the college
through his expert teaching for our
students, his attention to detail on the
many projects he has led, and his
collegial attitude. After a short break,
Mr. Myers intends to return as an
adjunct for the ITSC discipline. Um, I'd
have to share I'd be remiss if I didn't
share. Mr. Meyers is an avid bowler and
has bowled several perfect games. Um, so
Dr. Roberts when he served as uh interim
president would brag about how his team
would win bowling tournament because he
ensured that Mr. Meyers was on his team.
Um, and in a point of personal pride, I
actually won the bowling tournament the
year Mr. Meyers did not attend. So,
thank you, Mr. Myers. On behalf of the
college, we wish you the best in your
retirement. We thank you for your 35
years of service and we look forward to
welcoming you back. So, if you'd please
come up.
Item 1.7.2 optional presentations will
be made by the presidents of the
classified staff association, the
professional staff association, the
faculty association, and the student
government association.
Gosh,
to piggy back on uh
Professor Meyers retiring and President
Sarat's winning the championship the
first year. Uh as I recall, my team won
the championship the year after that.
However, and this still is a crawl in my
throat, Mr. President President Sarata
beat me for high score by seven lousy
pins.
It was a trying year for sure.
It was.
Oh well. I look forward to a rematch.
Uh, greetings trustees, Mr. President,
Vice Presidents, Deans,
acting deans,
guests, both live and in the vastness of
the unknown. Two months ago, I gave a
slideshow presentation on EPCC and the,
as you can see on the screen, the
terrible, horrible, no good, very bad
bill known as Senate Bill 37.
for your reading enjoyment.
Unfortunately, the dominant political
party in Texas and the governor in their
infinite and divine wisdom chose to pass
and sign into law this total abomination
atrocity obscinity of freedom of
democracy. Today I present a shortened
version of the slideshow based on the
updated version of the farcical and
dictatorial law.
I paraphrase the Declaration of
Independence. The history of the
president, Lieutenant Governor, and
dominant political party of Texas is a
history of repeated injuries and
usurppations,
all having in direct object the
establishment of an absolute tyranny
over Texas political colleges and
universities. To prove this, let facts
be submitted to a candid world. Thus, I
offer a comp comparison between EPCC and
SB37.
Number one, at EPCC,
the faculty association and the faculty
senate are established by and operated
by the EPCC faculty association bylaws
SB37.
Only the governing board you find people
of an institution, the board of trustees
of higher education may establish a
faculty council or senate based on the
draconian guidelines set forth in the
bill.
Number two, faculty members elect one
full-time and one adjunct at large
senator from each of the six CPCC
campuses and two full-time senators from
each academic division. Under SP37,
the new Senate will consist of at least
two representatives from each college or
school, including one member appointed
by the college president.
Because this bill is so poorly written,
does that mean one of the two from each
college or school will be appointed by
the president or does it mean one total
will be appointed by the president?
Comparison three, the faculty
association, president, full-time vice
president, secretary are granted paid
release hours under SP 37. Members of
the faculty council or senate are not
entitled to compensation or
reimbursement of expenses unless
approved by the board of trustees.
Number four, the faculty association
officers and faculty senators serve
terms of two years and are not subject
to term limits. Under SP 37, faculty
senators are appointed by the EPCC
president, may serve up to six
consecutive one-year terms and may only
be reappointed after a two-year absence.
Elected senators serve one two-year term
and can only be reelected after two year
two-year absence. And I might add here
this is highly hypocritical of the
legislature and the governor and the
lieutenant governor imposing term limits
on us but not themselves.
And number five, the faculty association
executive committee consisting of the
president, myself, full-time vice
president, adjunct vice president and
secretary are elected by the faculty for
a term of two years and can be
reelected. Under SP37, the EPCC
president shall appoint a presiding
officer, associate presiding officer and
secretary for members of the faculty
council or senate appointing officers.
And number six, sometimes the EPCC
faculty association senate passes
resolutions that do not need
administrative consent, such as
approving the minutes or the resolution
passed this academic year urging all
faculty to be courteous and aware of the
10-minute time between classes. Under
SP37,
a faculty council or senate is advisory
only and may not be delegated the final
decision-making authority on any manner.
Presumably that means administration or
the trustees or both must approve
everything the association senate passes
including the mundane resolutions such
as those stated above. That's all y'all
need is more work.
Why this ridiculous bill is being
advocated by the dominant political
party of Texas. All because Lieutenant
Governor Dan Patrick Patrick is throwing
a hissy fit. Because the UT Austin
faculty senate had the audacity to pass
a resolution opposing something Patrick
was in favor of. Said political party
claims to be the defender of democracy
in America. Yet, this bill is nothing
less than a blatant attempt by that
party and Patrick to destroy democracy
in Texas public colleges and
universities because they believe
without any proof whatsoever that quote
loony Marxist professors are supposedly
indoctrinating students to quote hate
America and turn them into socialists
and communists. In fact, sub political
party and the lieutenant governor are
attempting to indoctrinate students
toward their own far-right
propagandistic beliefs.
I'll skip these things.
Back in April, the faculty senate passed
a resolution. I won't read the whole
thing, but uh just go to the bottom.
Whereas SP 37 proposes to destroy the
democratic way the EPC faculty senate
has chosen and operates. The EPCC
faculty senate duly assembled does
hereby condemn and oppose the
undemocratic, vile, and repugnant SB37
is currently proposed.
Under SP 37, you the members of the EPCC
board of tr trustees will have to
approve that resolution if it had
happened in the new Senate. What will
you do? Thank you.
That's it.
Judge going back to open forum. I
believe Michelle Diaz is here in the
audience now.
Hello.
Um,
I'm here on behalf of coach Gutierrez's
part.
Um, despite the season that we had the
past two years, I've been here for the
past two years. I know it didn't go our
way and what it we expected and wanted
it to be. Despite all that, I feel she
is a very good coach. um completely
gives back to her community, has a
positive outlook not only on as us on
players, but wants us to achieve as
women outside of softball and school as
well as we enter the real world. And
because of that, I stand with her.
And yes,
yeah, I don't know what else to say.
Well, you did great. Thank you.
Okay. Thank you.
Thank you.
Section 1.8, communications, item 1.8.1,
discussion and review regarding data,
statistics, policies, and general
information related to El Paso Community
College by the board of trustees.
Chair Hagerty and members of the board.
I had promised to provide a a
legislative update um during the May
meeting and we had not yet finished the
legislature. So, we postponed that to
this meeting. I do want to provide you
with with an update on the legislature
and what the legislature um produced out
of the legislative session. We have to
start the legislative session with with
um Commissioner Roser. So, uh
Commissioner Keller uh served as the
commissioner of higher education for
just under five years. So, two
legislative sessions. Commissioner
Keller was a great friend to community
colleges and to EPCC in particular. Um
and so there were big shoes to fill. He
went on to serve as president University
of North Texas where he still is
currently. Um and Dr. Roser. Um I was
appointed to the advisory committee by
the coordinating board. So chair Faras
of the coordinating board, vice chair
Hout and Secretary Anoir joined uh three
college and university administrators. I
represented the community college
sector. Uh Dr. James Hallmark from Texas
A&M system and then uh Dr. Jay Hartzell,
the former president of UT Austin, now
president of SMU, served on the advisory
committee. We reached out to individuals
and encouraged them to consider the
commissioner of higher education. Um Dr.
Roser was one of the individuals that I
was one of the folks who reached out to
him. So we're very pleased that Dr.
Roser was willing to take on uh this
this role. Uh he started the job I
believe on January the 3 and then we
went straight into the legislative
session.
Uh I'll touch on a couple of things just
as a as a reminder for the board. Um so
in the 2023 legislative session uh there
were three themes that came out of the
commission uh for community college
finance which Mr. Hunt from El Paso
chaired. Um we were looking at funding
uh community colleges based on outcomes.
We're very focused on affordability for
students as well as on investments in
college capacity. So this was a group of
legislators uh as well as um
philanthropy Mr. Hunt and B representing
business and then we had four presidents
that served on the committee as well as
a trustee.
Um the key components of House Bill 8
was the fast program. We just had a
budget workshop so all of you are
familiar with the fast program. It's
financial aid for swift transfer. Um
shared services was a big part of this
performance tier which is outcomesbased.
Um, so 95% of the funding out of
resulting out of House Bill 8 goes
towards outcomesbased funding for El
Paso Community College. 100% of our
funding is based on performance tier.
There's we set aside 5% of the total
funding which is distributed to the the
colleges that have small tax bases to
help them um with regards to their base
tier funding. So the large colleges will
never qualify for base tier funding. And
then finally, the community college
standing advisory committee was put
together. Uh, Commissioner Keller asked
that I chair that. I continue to serve
as chair of that committee and will
serve in that capacity uh and through
the spring of 2026.
Um, our legislative focus areas for this
legislative session um was the
supplemental appropriations request. So
this our funding mechanism is based on
projections and we receive that funding.
And then once the actual outcomes come
forward, the the coordinating board
calculates what that is. And we wanted
to ensure that our supplemental
appropriations request was approved
before funding for the regular session.
So this ended up being $89.5 million for
the community college sector. The
legislature did fund that. Uh we were
asking for full funding for the formula
for the next bienium based on outcomes.
Uh we wanted to include private
institutions uh in transfer. So, uh, the
institution that makes the most sense is
Mlennon Community College. They're
located in Waco. Their number one
transfer partner is Baylor. Mr. Mendes,
as your daughter attends Baylor, um, is
Baylor, and they were not receiving
credit for students who transferred to
Baylor. So, we wanted to make sure we
corrected that error. And so now,
students who transfer to private
colleges and universities in the state
of Texas will count towards
performance-based funding as well.
Among our areas of of focus was also
continuing to scale workforce
partnerships. We certainly understand
that um the Texas economy continues to
grow. We are the uh from our
perspective, we are the the fuel for
that economy continuing to grow. The
community colleges produce 95%
96% of all career technical education
degrees and certificates in the state.
And so we want to continue to move
forward with that. um state agency
workforce credentials. This was
something that we were keeping an eye on
and ensuring that we were a part of it.
Uh last legislative session the
legislature reduced the qualifications
uh for programmers in particular that
are um that were employed by the state
diir moved forward with this and so this
these were laws that we were continuing
to keep an eye on and then we wanted to
ensure that we were continuing to have
access to nursing clinical rotation
slots. there were for-profit
institutions that were offering
hospitals payment for those clinical
rotation slots and so we felt that it
was important for us to ensure that the
the public institutions had access to
those as well. We also went in and made
sure that our legislature knew who we
were and what we did. Uh we started this
back in 2019 2021 sessions. We serve
well over 700,000 students um in the in
the 50 community colleges. We awarded
over 125,000 degrees and certificates.
As I indicated earlier, we provide 96%
of all career and technical education
certificates and degrees. Um, so this
was important for us to ensure that the
legislature understood this.
Senate Bill one is the budget. Senate
Bill one um codified and ensured that uh
the $89.5 million of the supplemental
appropriations was there and moved
forward. They fully funded the community
college sector. Now that currently the
funds are now at $2.4 billion dollars.
Uh before the 2023 legislative session,
they were at $1.8 billion for the 50
community colleges. TEOG is um the the
student uh uh work study program. TOG is
is student aid, state aid for students.
Um they increased that from 222 million
to 306.2 million. And then the fast
resources went from 78.6
to $165.2 million. So we felt that it
was a successful session. I will touch
on a couple of bills. Um I probably
won't touch on Senate Bill 37 since Dr.
Bham already covered that for me. Um but
17 uh bill Senate Bill 1786 is the
cleanup bill to House Bill 8. It's its
companion was House Bill 2110. Some key
pieces of that particular bill was it
was uh expanding access to dual credit
and defining what a high school student
is. There was no definition of what high
school was in statute prior to this. So
we were saying dual credit is for
students that are in grades 9 through
12. Um that expanded that access for
them. In addition, it focused on
opportunities for students to earn those
college credits. Again, the allocation
uh was just over $2.4 billion. It's
about a two almost a 2 and a.5%
increase. You see uh in the graphic it
went from 1.8 to 2.2 to now $2.4
billion. Um and again those transfers
that go to private institutions will
count as long as they're in Texas.
Senate Bill 37. I'll touch on a couple
of areas. Um Dr. Bham's absolutely
right. Um it expanded authority of the
governing board over the hiring of not
just me and legal counsel but uh Dr.
Smith and his position. Um the board has
the right to veto that. If I come
forward with a recommendation that the
board doesn't agree with on that
particular position, the board can veto
that. Um there are annual reports uh
that the legislature required um the
governing board to create the faculty
council. Again, Dr. Bham covered much of
this. Um the faculty senates um the
governing board uh exclusively creates
faculty senates now. So that has to come
through you. You see the requirements.
It can only be uh 60. It has to be
capped at 60 members. Um we are working
with legal counsel as well as with Dr.
Bham um to ensure that we have
everything in order to move forward with
this. Um I will share with you that uh
on September 1st the faculty senate as
it currently exists will be abolished um
based on statute. So we have to work u
with the board as well as with faculty
senate to ensure that we're meeting the
requirements that are laid out by the
state which we will work with legal
counsel to ensure that uh and we will
continue to meet with Dr. Bernham and
his colleagues. Um again lots of um
additional duties uh as assigned by the
legislature with regards to faculty
grievances and hiring. Again, I shared
with you the executive searches and then
the coordinating board um the governor
will appoint an anbuds person who will
then be a part of the coordinating board
but it reports directly to the governor
who will um investigate and serve as a
leazison between the public, the
legislature as well as institutions of
higher education.
Um the legislature continuously passes
bills. Um Senate Bill 1786 from my
perspective was a very good bill. Senate
Bill 37 is a challenging bill. Uh a
challenging bill that we will work with.
We will work with legal counsel to
ensure that we're in compliance with the
law and to ensure that our faculty
continue to have representation. Um but
that is um a small gamut of what the
legislature looked at. I picked items
that were very uh pertinent to the
college and to the function of the
institution. I'm happy to entertain any
questions that the board may have. Dr.
Tro, there's supposed to be a special
session. Uh anything contained
currently, judge. So the the uh the
governor listed six items that he wanted
to look at. They were specific bills
that had not made it through the
session. of one of them, the most
notorious is, um, the bill on hemp, uh,
hemp products. Uh, uh, and so what
you're looking at, um, there's real
concerns, uh, from the lieutenant
governor who's been very vocal about
this, that it should be banned
completely. Uh, from the business
sector, it raises, estimates are that it
raises a billion dollars in tax revenue.
If the legislature chooses to ban that,
then they have to figure out where that
billion dollars of tax revenue comes
from or what they cut.
It brings in a billion dollars. Now,
that is what we are told. That is that
is the estimate of the product um within
the state of Texas, but there's six
specific items that the governor has
asked. The governor can expand that.
There is nothing related to higher
education at this point. We do not
anticipate that anything with regards to
higher education will be brought
forward.
Thank you.
Any other questions?
Thank you all.
Section 1.9, Board of Trustees Business.
Items 1.9.1 and item 1.9.2 will be
discussed after executive session.
Section 1.10, Board Reports. Item
1.10.1,
Treasures Treasures Report. Item 1.10.1,
May 31, 2025, financial statements. No
action is required. Item 11.10.2,
president's report. Item 11.10.2.1.
Dr. William Serata, college president,
will update the board of trustees and
audience on recent events that have
transpired at El Paso Community College.
This is the meeting you get a lot of me,
judge. Um, my apologies. Um, good
afternoon to all our board members. Um,
I'd like to begin my report by sharing
that the El Paso Community College Forum
Theater proudly presents You're a Good
Man, Charlie Brown, directed by theater
faculty member Ted Carver, and featuring
stage design by Dominic Pagano. The
production brings together a talented
team, including music director Cody
Richie and dance faculty Jeremy Edmonson
as choreographer. The opening night is
scheduled for July 3rd with refreshments
provided by the culinary arts student
culinary services under the direction of
of Chef Reyes.
Many in the community are familiar with
the beloved Peanuts comic strip and this
production promises to be a fun
familyfriendly event that audiences of
all ages can enjoy. NASA's Globe
Programming Partnership headed uh Globe
Globe EPCC headquartered at the Trans
Mountain campus has increased its
collaborative activities within the El
Paso community. Globe EPCC has continued
career development and science
demonstrations with Torneo Elementary
and Middle School in May, providing
students with opportunities to pursue
careers in science. Globe EPCC has also
conducted interactive science
demonstrations at Lanuba Science Museum
by providing engaging science activities
dealing with atmospheric data
collection. EPCC Globe has now become a
center for providing professional
training in conducting atmospheric
science focused on cloud science to
professional educators in independent
school districts in the El Paso area and
informal educators for for different
agencies. The now approved collaboration
with Lanuba will help facilitate this
endeavor and increase the EPCC globe
footprint in the community as a center
for science excellence in partnership
with the Texas Workforce Commission
Skills Development Fund and Bane
Enterprises LLC hosted a check
presentation at the EPCC Administrative
Services Center. Commissioner Albert
Trevinho III representing labor at the
Texas Workforce Commission presented a
check in the amount of $85,521
to support a new workforce training
initiative in collaboration
with Bane Enterprises LLC. This funding
will allow EPCC's workforce and
continuing education division to deliver
over 980 hours of customized training
for 102 new and existing employees of
Bane Enterprises, a key regional
supplier of utility and construction
related equipment and services. The
grant will cover all direct training
costs including tuition, instructor
fees, curriculum development, in
instructional materials, and
administrative expenses. Training topics
will include basic construction
surveying, surveying, blueprint reading,
flagger certification, drone operations,
construction math, site supervision, and
business communications. This project
also marks the 11th skills development
fund grant awarded to EPCC since 2019,
bringing our total SDF funding to over
$2.5 million. These grants continue to
play a critical role in EPCC's ability
to respond to regional workforce needs
through tailored high impact training
programs. We look forward to continuing
our collaboration with Bane Enterprises
and the Texas Workforce Commission as we
work together to elevate the skills and
opportunities available to workers in
our region.
I'm pleased to share a remarkable story
of entrepreneurial success that
highlights the impact of El Paso
Community Colleg's Small Business
Development Center, the SPDC, in
strengthening our region's economic
vitality. Adrien and Mike Sto, lifelong
wing enthusiasts at America's High
School and America High School
graduates, recently celebrated the
opening of their fifth, the Shack Wings
and Bruise location in West El Paso.
What began as a shared dream between two
brothers has now grown into a thriving
local business with five locations
across the city. Since 2009, the STO
brothers have worked together closely
with EPCC's SBDC to navigate every phase
of their business development from
initial concept to expansion. With the
with the guidance of s of the SPDC, they
successfully scaled operations from a
modest storefront in Horizon City to a
multilocation restaurant brand
recognized throughout El Paso. Through
business planning, financing strategies,
and ongoing mentorship, our SBDC helped
the Stos move to larger facilities,
develop new locations with unique
customer features, and continue to grow
a a loyal customer base. Their story
reflects not only their entrepreneurial
spirit but also the vital role EPCC
plays in supporting local business
development and job creation.
Congratulations to the Stos for the
success of the Shack Wings and Bruise
and we look forward to helping many more
local businesses thrive through PCC's
commitment to economic and workforce
development. Thank you to Miss Audrey
Maru for another successful small
business grand opening. Earlier this
month, EPCC's computing program
department proudly participated in the
annual region 19 career and technical
education or CTE conference held at the
Starlight Event Center. During the
event, our computer science and cyber
security programs presented a preview of
the upcoming hack the border, hack the
city demonstration and an initiative
that will culminate in the capture the
flag cyber security competition
scheduled for November 20th through the
22nd, 2025 at EPCC. The project is made
possible through a strategic partnership
with Microsoft under the grant
initiative titled constructing
artificial intelligence capacity for the
workforce and educational sector in the
border region. The goal of this
initiative is to strengthen EPCC's
capacity to integrate emerging AI
technologies into computing education
and provide guidance to educators on
incorporating workforce informed best
practices into their instruction. Over
the past two years, both hack the border
and our own computing computing programs
have seen significant growth in student
engagement, course enrollment, and
regional collaboration. Our partnerships
with institutions such as UTEP, New
Mexico State University, and Seronyima
Deslect
a growing bational and interdisciplinary
reach. In addition to hack the border
preview, Dr. Servine and students Jesus
Ramirez and Ivan Alonso presented their
work titled Integrating AI in computer
science education, designing culturally
relevant assignments through a sense of
belonging framework, which several
industry vendors expressed strong
interest in collaborating with EPCC
following the presentation, reinforcing
the value and visibility of this work in
both educational and workforce contexts.
Congratulations, Dr. Savine, for a
successful event. In collaboration with
EPCC campus life, student leadership and
El Paso's fighting hunger, the college
hosted a successful grocery pickup event
at the Trans Mountain campus. This marks
one one of more than half a dozen events
held over the past year at various EPCC
campuses as part of our growing
partnership with El Paso's fighting
hunger. In response to the region's
extreme summer temperature, the event
was structured as a drive-thru to ensure
safety and accessibility. Several
hundred individuals, including students,
faculty, staff, and members of the
broader community, lined up in their
vehicles to receive a variety of free
grocery items such as fresh produce,
canned goods, snacks, and beverages. Our
first partnership event with El Pasoans
fighting hunger was held in July 2024 at
the VA campus with subsequent
distributions at the Rio Grand and
Mission Del Paso campuses. These events
are part of a wider institutional effort
to combat food insecurity among our
campus community, a challenge that
continues to impact academic persistence
and overall student well-being. This
initiative would not be possible without
the dedicated support of our internal
and external partners. Special thanks to
El Paso's fighting hunger, the EPCC
campus life team, student leadership,
the Pasos program, new student
orientation, and the EPCC student
government association for their hard
work and commitment to serving our
students and the broader community.
Chair Hagerty, that concludes my report.
Again, I am happy to respond to any
questions that the board may have.
Anybody have any questions?
Thanks. Questions?
Thanks, Doc.
Item 1.11, consent docket. There is
none. Section two, administration. Item
2.1, CAK local TASBY investment policy
for second reading and approval.
Move to
approve. Second.
Any questions?
All the questions.
Mr. Xter.
Hi.
Mrs. Robless.
Miss Maher.
Hi.
Mr. Mendes.
Mrs. Moy.
Hi.
Dr. Graham.
Mr. Hagerty.
Hi.
Item 2.2. BCA BCB BCE CG CGF C H A D I A
B Ecc FDB and F LBC. TASBY. Local
policies for first reading review and
comment only.
No motion.
No action is required. Section three,
personnel. Item 3.1, information items.
Institutionally externally funded
full-time staff and faculty
appointments, extensions, resignations,
and retirements. No action is required.
Sec um item 3.2 tenure track faculty
appointments and new tenur faculty.
I
have a motion.
Motion to approve.
Second. Any questions? Call a question.
Mr. Exter.
Hi.
Mrs. Robas.
Miss Maher.
Hi.
Mr. Menddees.
Mrs. Moy.
Hi.
Dr. Graham.
She steps.
Mr. Hagerty.
Hi.
Section 4, Financial Services. Item 4.1.
discussion and action on the approval of
a contract award with Time Clock Plus
LLC to provide a timekeeping and leave
system in an amount not to exceed
$613,555
over a 5-year period.
Move to approve 4.1 and 4.2.
Second
item 4.2, Two, discussion and action on
the approval of the third year of a
three-year subscription agreement with
SHI government Solutions, Inc. for the
Microsoft Enrollment for Education
Solutions Program in an amount not to
exceed $244,13
year three.
Any questions?
Yes. Just out of curiosity on section on
4.9 I notice on page 79 this financial
abstract service uh Mr. notice it's the
only it's the only item I can see in
here that actually has two budget
accounting system. What just out of
curiosity, how come we have have two
budget items for one one category?
Yes sir. Thank thank you for that. So
the the reason for that is because we
use um we we make the purchase using two
different fund funding sources. So that
is the reason why so we do a percentage
out of one and the other.
Yeah. that that then comes up the
question why
because one of them is funded by the
technology fund and then the other one
from the software account.
Oh okay. Okay.
Any other questions? Other questions?
Mr. Uxer
I.
Mrs. Robas
Miss Maher.
Hi.
Mr. Mendes.
Mrs. Moy.
I.
Mr. Hagerty.
I. Item 4.3 discussion and action to
adopt the broker dealer list for
investments provided by Hilltop
Securities Asset Management LLC.
Move to approve.
Second.
Any discussion?
All the questions.
Mr. Exterain.
Mrs. Robas.
Hi.
Miss Nah.
Mr. Mendes.
Hi.
Mrs. Moy.
Dr. Graham. Hi.
Mr. Hagerty.
Hi.
Item 4.4 discussion and action on the
approval of adding and removing
signitories on bank resolutions for
Wells Fargo Bank and A.
Move to approve.
Second.
Any discussion?
Call the question.
Mr. Xer.
I.
Mrs. Robas.
Miss Naha.
I.
Mr. Mendes.
Hi.
Mrs. Moy.
Dr. Graham.
Hi.
Mr. Hagerty.
I.
Section five physical facilities. Item
5.1, discussion and action on the
approval to award a contract to VSC Fire
and Security, Inc. for the replacement
of the fire alarm system serving the
Mission Del Paso campus in an amount not
to exceed $524,800.
Move to approve.
Second.
Any discussion?
Call the question.
Mr. Xer.
I.
Mrs. Robiss.
Miss Naha.
I.
Mr. Mendes.
Hi.
Mrs. Moy.
Dr. Graham.
Hi.
Mr. Hagerty.
Hi. Item 5.2, discussion and action on
the approval to award a contract to
Furniture Marketing Group, Inc. for the
purchase of replacement furniture for
the Mission Del Paso campus in in an
amount not to exceed $488,892.
Move to approve.
Second.
Any discussion?
Call the question.
Mr. Xer.
I.
Mrs. Robas.
Miss Naha.
I.
Mr. Mendes.
Hi.
Mrs. Moy.
Dr. Graham.
Hi.
Mr. Hagerty. I
item 5.3 discussion and action on the
approval to award a contract to AO
general Contractor Inc. for the
replacement of the existing roadway
surface on La Promesa Drive at the Vay
Verde campus in an amount not to exceed
$842,99.
Move to approve.
Second.
Any discussion?
Call a question.
Mr. Exter.
Mrs. Robless.
I.
Miss Naha.
Mr. Mendes.
Hi.
Mrs. Mrs. Moy
I.
Dr. Graham.
Yes.
Mr. Hagerty.
Hi.
Section six, curriculum and instruction.
Item 6.1, discussion and action on the
approval of of an agreement with Lumen,
Inc. to continue to provide open
educational resources, OEER, course
materials in an amount not to exceed
$100,000 per year.
Move to approve.
Second.
Any discussion?
Other question?
Mr. Uxer.
I.
Mrs. Robas. I
Miss Naha.
Hi,
Mr. Mendes.
Mrs. Moy.
Hi,
Dr. Graham.
Mr. Hagerty.
Hi.
Item 6.2, discussion and action on the
approval to purchase from California
Sales Organization LLC a Space File USA
distribution office compact shelving for
the EPCC Libraries in an amount not to
exceed $51,999.
Move to approve.
Second.
Any discussion?
Call the question.
Mr. Uggser.
I.
Mrs. Robless.
Hi.
Miss Naha.
Mr. Mendes.
Hi.
Mrs. Moy.
Dr. Graham.
Hi.
Mr. Hagerty.
Section seven, student services. Item
7.1 discussion and action on the
approval to award a contract to Mike
Garcia Merchant Security LLC for
providing private security guard
services on an as needed basis at
various locations within the EPCC
district in an amount not to exceed
1,3776,357
for a three-year period.
Move to approve.
Second.
Any discussion?
Yes. Um
just uh Dr. Am I I know we talked about
this just a couple hours ago, but I
think it'd be important for you to just
relate what you told me about these
people. Actually, when when you say uh
security guard service, all of a sudden
that ranges somewhere somebody walking
around with an AR-15 to somebody with a
cell phone, you know, tell tell what
what the security guard really
encompasses and their training and what
they have and that kind of thing.
Sure. I can I can give you a a brief
description of what they do. And yeah,
chief wants to add any more. He's
welcome to. Um, these are security uh
staff that are licensed. However, they
do not carry weapons or tasers as you
asked me about.
So, any issues that they communicate, we
have them covering evenings and weekends
at the five campuses and the
administrative services center.
Likewise, we have two uh that cover the
ASC daily.
any incidents they reach out to the
lieutenant on call. So we have a
lieutenant every evening and weekend and
obviously chief that are on call. Uh
same for any daytime operations here at
the ASC.
Yeah. I I just think it's important to
note that they really are just a walking
around walking uh mobile alert service
and really that's what they are and and
that's a
I you can't describe something more than
a vital function that you know that that
goes it's something we need that sort of
bridges the gap between you know a
locked door and having Chief Ramirez and
his people you know out there you know
standing guard. I think I think that's
probably uh the probably best money
spent.
Yes, sir.
Any other questions?
Uh yes, I have a question.
How how much did we spend previously on
these services? I It looks Did it go
from 458785
to the current amount that's been
requested?
This is for three years. This is for
So the current amount is for the three
years. So it's an annual contract. So
the total for the first year would be
458,78560.
The amount per year being really
changed.
Uh there is an increase. So we we are
meeting whatever the increase is for the
contract with uh merchant security, but
I I don't have year's numbers. I would
need to get that to you.
Do you know if we used a full amount or
did you end up using less or more than
what was requested?
I'm going to I'm going to ask Chief real
quick on that.
Mr. We talked about as as far as
understanding this a contingency fund.
So for the maximum you you project what
it might be, but you're not obligating
to use this much,
right? And so previously when we asked
for these funds, one of the things that
we're doing is this is making up for
vacant police department positions. So
as we add more staff, we are then able
to reduce our reliance on the security
staff. So it can be variable, but that
would be the maximum that we would be
spending each year. So I don't know, did
we if we spent the whole budget this
past year, Chief?
Uh, no sir, we have not yet. No. So we
still have some some funds left. uh
especially because sometimes in what
happens is that if one of the officers
security officers does not show, of
course, we're not we're not charged for
that. So, and we keep track of every on
a daily basis, uh if they don't show or
not because we're required to keep track
of the money and then also I have a
system in place that tells me that every
where everybody's at and whether they
show up or not.
So, if they don't show up, do you have
one of your the officers uh get overtime
and then they come in or how that
situation?
It's mainly it's mainly the the uh the
security officers that are working at at
night time
and we we do have an officer assigned
with them at nighttime. Uh so again, the
officer that is working with them at at
night time, that officer covers, you
know, you know, whatever is left
uncovered. And then uh in the during the
day of course we we could pick up u you
know what whatever work is not done by
by them you know we're here I have more
people that are assigned during the day
so we're able to cover that. So
and do they work mostly part-time or
uh no ma'am all the officers that we
have at this time are they're working
full-time
fulltime.
Yes ma'am.
Excuse me. When you say somebody doesn't
show up, just out of curiosity, what
kind of non-attendance rate do you see
out of the security service?
Um, it just depends. Uh, uh, actually
the, uh, the crew that we have right
now, they're pretty reliable. They
seldom call call in late or or arrive or
or don't show up. So, they're they're
pretty reliable. They they should they
do show up to work. So every now and
then they don't of course you know.
So more or less out of that amount that
was approved before how much was spent
or how much was left or
um that that that I don't I don't know
ma'am I don't I don't have that
information. I can I can give you that
information but Okay.
And when you say that there's positions
that haven't been filled by police
officers so you have vacant positions
what do you attribute that to? And
Okay. Uh we um currently we do get a lot
of applicants or I shouldn't say a lot
of applicants. We do get applicants but
uh the problem is is that um a good
majority of the applicants that we're
receiving or getting uh don't actually
have a a peace officer license which is
the main requirement. Um they see the
announcement and they believe that they
can apply for it but if they don't have
a peace officer license then they're not
uh they're not qualified for the
position. That's that's one of the
really m one of the main problems. The
other problem is that they're not
clearing the background. Um they um some
of the applicants that we've received in
the past have a pretty um serious
background. They have some serious
problems and uh I don't accept them. I
don't I don't run them through. So they
they fail the background checks.
Isn't the EPCC offering the uh peace uh
license on a kind of a fast track?
Uh that I know of they have uh two
courses. One it's it's running during
the day uh during the day hours and I
believe that academy is I want to say
seven months and then the other one that
are that they usually run in the evening
hours because they're less hours you
know they they take them I believe nine
months. So that they are always running
a class like that ormies like that. So
yes ma'am
thank you sir.
Yes ma'am.
Any other questions?
Just out of curiosity you're competitive
uh is that a competitive position on
people with a police officer's license.
Do they uh have option to go to some
other big city like Van Horn or
something like that?
Uh yes you know that's uh that's always
a challenge uh that you know they they
want to go someplace else. uh believe
that uh believing that they can do
better or improve their pay. That's not
always the case in in the in the case,
you know, with some of the people that
have left actually want to come back uh
again because they they leave and then
it's it's hasn't turned out too well for
them and they actually want to come
back.
Yeah.
Uh but you know, it's just it's just
going to depend on what they've done,
you know, since they have left. uh if uh
some officers are you know actually have
gotten into problems and then I don't
accept them. So
have we considered any programs like to
build a pool or capacity in in hiring
under a probationary period while if
contingent they're enrolled here with us
for the peace officer certification we
can hire them for a term? Well, well, if
if they don't have an a license, I can't
hire them as as an as officer,
but even as a program under a
probationary, have is that something
that we've considered just to build a
pooling capacity?
Um, I'm not really sure that I
understand the question.
I'll jump in, Mrs. Moy.
So, we've uh worked quite a bit to
improve the police officer starting
salary and in all the officers within
the ranks and we've discussed several
options. So, uh, been something that
we've discussed as a possible option.
Um, you're talking more like an academy
sort of style. So, it's been on the
table, but we haven't
move forward on that yet.
Thank you.
Any other questions? Call a question.
Mr. Exter.
I.
Mrs. Robiss.
Hi.
Miss Naha.
Mr. Mendes.
Hi,
Mrs. Moy.
Dr. Graham.
Hi,
Mr. Hagerty. Hi.
Section 8, comm community services.
There is none. Would the board like to
go into executive session? Item 1.3,
executive and close session. The board
of trustees may conduct an executive or
close session pursuant to chapter 551 of
the Texas government code for one or
more of the following reasons. One,
consultation with its attorney to seek
or receive legal advice or consultation
regarding pending or contemplated
litigation or for any purpose authorized
by law. Two, discussion about the value
or transfer of real property. Three,
discussion about a prospective gift or
donation. Four, consideration of
specific personnel matters. Five,
discussion about security personnel or
devices. Or six, discussion of certain
economic development matters. The board
may also announce that it will go into
executive session on any item listed on
this agenda if the subject matters
permitted for a close session by
provisions of chapter 551 of the Texas
Government Code. Any vote regarding
these items shall be taken in open
session. Item 1.3.1, discussion with
legal council regarding a lawsuit styled
Catalina Valtier Pinon versus El Paso
County Community College District cause
number 2024
DCV 2798 in the 168th Judicial Court
District Court of El Paso County, Texas,
pursuant to section 551.071
of the Texas Government Code. Item 1.3.2
Two, discussion with legal counsel
regarding proposed contract termination
of employee in the division of student
and enrollment services pursuant to
section 551.074
of the Texas government code. The time
is now 5:38 and the board is in
executive session.
Okay, we're back out of executive
session. Uh
they say yet?
No, not yet.
All right, Bill, could you please uh
read 1.9.1?
Yes, sir. Item 1.9.1, discussion and
take possible action regarding a lawsuit
styled Catalina Valtier Pinon versus El
Paso County Community College District,
cause number 2024 DCV2798
in the 168 Judicial District Court of El
Paso County, Texas.
We're going to have no uh action on that
item. Can you read 1.9.2?
Yes, sir. Item 1.9.2, discussion and
take possible action regarding proposed
contract termination of employee in the
division of student and enrollment
services.
Do I have a motion?
I move to approve the termination of
Katherine Gutierrez in the division of
student and enrollment services.
Second.
Any discussion?
Call a question.
Mr.
I.
Mrs. Robas.
Miss Naha.
Hi.
Mr. Menddees.
Mrs. Moy.
Hi,
Dr. Graham.
Mr. Hagerty.
Hi.
And our next board meeting will be in
this room on July 23rd at 4:30.
Judge, we're going to need to um
reschedule that meeting. I want to make
sure that it's good for the board. We
have two members of the board that will
be out on the 23rd. Okay.
So, the board would consider having the
meeting on the 30th.
It's a Wednesday. The follow I am not
I am not traveling.
Okay. I went to that conference last
year and it was not worth my time. I
will not be returning.
Oh my god.
Does anybody have a problem with the
30th?
No problem.
Okay. Uh so we will be meeting here on
the 30th at 4:30 in this room next month
and we're journ.
Thank you judge. Thank you all.
Thank you Miss Marine. Happy
anniversary. Thank you so much.
Happy anniversary.
Hey, hey, hey.
[Music]